In this last lesson of today, we're going to generate the record that stores all the incomes, people
and schedules that have entered the work today.
And we're going to do that with a function here.
We have our only function so far, which is encode.
And at the end of this function, we're going to create another one which is dedicated to record attendance.
The function is going to be called record attendance and it's going to need to pass parameters to it.
Yes, of course it does.
We're going to pass person.
Every time a person enters, you're going to pass them their information.
You can do a lot of things here in this function.
You can record the name, you can recall the day, the time they entered, and you can save the image
taken by the camera.
You can link it to a database to associate it with a whole series of other information and so on.
But in this case, to keep it simple, we're just going to record the name and the time of attendance
and save it in a CSV formatted spreadsheet.
To do that, we're going to need to use another library which you already know which is date time from
which we're going to import date time.
Now we have tools to work with time we're going to create manually inside py charm a record in CSV format.
So for that you can come directly here in day 14, right click and go to new file and this time we choose
a name for our file like register and it will not be dot p but dot c csv if you're not used to working
with spreadsheets, csv books are files that store records in row format and are called CSV four comma
separated values.
Pressing enter our register csv has been generated and I have generated it inside day 14.
It is inside that folder.
So here we have everything we are using to work with and we have registered.
CSV as you can see in my case, I have it with the Excel logo because I have configured CSV files to
open in Excel, but they can also open in text file that is indistinct.
Now in this file that I've created, I'm going to write in the first line name comma our.
So if we open this file and I click on it.
See that these headers are already saved here as first information.
I've written this manually, but the next information in this record is going to be generated via code
dynamically.
Each line is going to represent an employee reporting for work.
So now I'm going to go back to the function that we were working with, and we're going to create a
file here called F, which is equal to open, and we're going to open registered CSV and we're going
to open it in a format that is R plus.
So that we can not only open it but also write it.
Fatalist is going to be a variable that we're going to use to store f dot red lines, this function
that we have already learned and that serves to read all the lines of our text file.
Then we're going to create a list called Register Names that is going to start as empty.
Why so?
Because this is where we're going to store the people who have registered in our database, shown on
camera.
And now we say that for each line that we find in data lists, we're going to do the following.
We're going to create a variable that's called newcomer, that's equal to line dot split, and that's
going to split wherever it finds a comma.
And we're going to make register names, take care of storing in that list with a pen.
Whatever's in newcomer at index zero.
So why do we do this?
So that later we can check once we get out of the loop.
If person is not in register names.
Because if it is not in register names, it means that it has not yet entered the job today.
Now we're going to generate the variable right now that stores the time.
It's going to set what time it is.
We do it with date time now and we will have already stored the current time inside the variable right
now.
How we're going to transform that information into a string and we're going to store it in a variable
called string right now, which is going to be equal to right now dot str f time, which transforms
the data into a string.
And there's a very handy way of doing that.
We haven't used it before, but you know, there are different ways of achieving the same thing.
So inside inverted commas, we're going to put percentage hedge.
She's going to get the our colon percentage.
M Which is going to get the minutes colon percentage.
SW which is going to get the second.
With that, we build a format to show the time and then we call again the file F and we use the method
write lines.
And there, as long as that person has not been registered that day, we're going to write a little
string that makes a line break that invokes person that we can write there, the name of the person
which will be received through the parameters of the function when we call it then a comma, because
we are writing in a CSV file that contains comma separated values.
And finally, a call to string.
Right now, the one we just created.
So this would write into our CSB record the name of the person and the time that they were detected
by the camera.
We would call this function and we go all the way down here.
But we finished building everything.
But before displaying the image, of course.
And here we're going to call the function record attendance.
And as person we're going to load employee name, which is the variable that we have already loaded
with the name of the detected person.
We're going to execute this.
And first I will appear on the screen.
It's going to be generated from the database and here comes the camera.
I'm getting ready.
Well, this time I didn't go as bad as last time, so everything worked fine.
It detected the I am Federico Garai and if I come to our file it says Federico Garai and the time the
photo was taken.
I'm going to do it again with George's photo.
So we restart everything.
We wait and I'm putting the phone with George there so that it can take it.
And here we have George Constanza.
Let's look at the log now.
And George Constanza has been added just a minute after me.
Let's see if I'll now show it again myself on camera to see what happens when someone is already registered
in register.
Si se ve.
He's going to take my picture and it recognizes me.
But if I look at the register now, it didn't add one more element because when I compare if that person
is not in the registry, it saw that he already is registered.
And it didn't add me to the registry and I'm going to repeat the operation one last time, but now I'm
calling a different friend, someone who is not actually on the original employee list.
I put them in front of the camera to see what happens when he shows up and it tells us that he does
not match any of our employees.
In other words, none of the values were a significant match, and he doesn't match any of our employees.
Our program works just as we expected it.
So of course, you can still improve it and modify it in any way you want, whether it's with a much
better graphical interface generating more data within register, CSV or whatever twist you need.
The important thing is that at the beginning of the day you didn't know how to do facial recognition.
And here you are now, an expert.
So let's go to the next section where you'll have to take a tranquilizer to master the adrenaline that
the new learning will generate.
See you tomorrow.